---
layout: post
title:  "Implicit Ought in Writing and Speech"
date:   2018-03-14 02:07:00 -0400
categories: thoughts people
---
> "Any questions? ... ... ... Great. In that case, "

Implies asking questions is bad.

In reality, the lecture just felt awkward waiting for questions and wanted to segue into the next topic.

> "Pennsylvania schools avoid strike."

Implies striking is bad.

In reality, the writer has no idea whether striking would have been a good choice for the teachers, by merely notes that other teachers have gone on strike and these have not.

> "Clearly, the expected value of the conditional distribution is ..."

Implies that the reader should understand everything without trying.

In reality, "Clearly" was only used to spice up the writing a bit.


Awareness
==

We must stay aware of what we say and write. The phrases we say and write by habit, without thinking, to make the sentence flow better or fill a silence. Every word matters.

Words matter most in cases of restricted or poor communication. "How was your day" as a conversation starter places the focus of the conversation on the recent past, regardless of whether eith conversant wants to focus on that. "Get well soon" places expectation and responsibility on the sufferer.

I want to hear what I say loud enough that I can make my words better than default.

> "What's something fun/happy/exciting/new in your life?"

> "I care about you, and I love you".

> "Any questions? ... ... ... This is way more fun for me and for you if you ask questions. ... ... Maybe next time."

The point isn't to succeed. The point is to try.
